## Understanding the output ##

With the exception of status messages, each output from the tool on stdout should contain a series of tab-separated values of the form:

> `<sequence file> <starting base> <ending base> <strand> <motif character probability> <normalized score> <aggregate score> <positional weight matrix name> <subsequence>`

Where each output is defined as follows, in order of appearance:
  * **_Sequence file_** the input sequence file. Used to differentiate collective runs of the tool across many sequences.
  * **_Starting Base_** the starting base pair of the given comparison window.
  * **_Ending Base_** the ending base pair of the given comparison window.
  * **_Strand_** the strand identifier, in common notation. "+" for the positive strand, "-" for the negative.
  * **_Motif Character Probability_** score generated by computing the average probability of all characters in this window relative to the given probability weight matrix. Values tending toward 1 represent high signal; 0, noise.
  * **_Normalized Score_** the normalized representation of the aggregate score _at this point in computation_. This value should be recomputed once all results for the desired window are calculated and collected.
  * **_Aggregate Score_** the aggregate score of this region relative to the probability weight matrix and background model.
  * **_Positional Weight Matrix Name_** the name of the positional weight matrix currently under inspection, according to the supplied threshold file.
  * **_Subsequence_** the characters within the current sequence comparison window. Literally, the selection between _starting base_ and _ending base_ derived from the given sequence file.


For example:
```
  mouse_2007/genomes/chr1.fa      53390496        53390515        +       0.746892        0.761125        930393          P53_01  ggacaaacccgggcatgccc
  mouse_2007/genomes/chr1.fa      53584676        53584695        +       0.794892        0.96834         3.92304e+07     P53_01  ggacatgcccgggcaggccc
  mouse_2007/genomes/chr1.fa      55096376        55096395        +       0.746892        0.724716        482109          P53_01  gggcctgccggggcatgtcc
  mouse_2007/genomes/chr1.fa      55552451        55552470        +       0.746892        0.720407        446020          P53_01  gggcctgccagggcatgtcc
```

With the right switches and input data sets, these output data provide positional "hits" along the given input sequence for the each input positional weight matrix, consistent with the algorithm defined in [Thijs 2003](ftp://ftp.esat.kuleuven.ac.be/sista/thijs/reports/phd.pdf).

Only one value need be recomputed for each result, in accordance with the algorithm originally defined. The thresholding function defined in this iteration of Molotov defines an invariant minimum of 0, which allows us to transitively filter results during computation without taking multiple passes along the input data set. It is assumed that these results will then be filtered according to the _correct_ threshold function, defined across all values as:

```
   if (log(aggregate_score) - min(log(aggregate_score))) / (max(log(aggregate_score)) - min(log(aggregate_score))) >= threshold_value
```

Where **_aggregate\_score_** is the aggregate score for each line of output, **_threshold\_value_** is the predefined value for the given motif positional weight matrix by the input threshold file, and **_log_** is the natural logarithmic function.